In the last lecture I showed you that we have a valid set up to show this install banner to the user
but I also mentioned that maybe you don't want to show it as early as possible. This assumption here
of Chrome, that this is a good point of time is of course just like almost a random guess,
of course some thought went into this because if a person revisits your page, they probably like it but
you might know better.
For example in our web application, maybe the chance for a user to actually accept the installation prompt
is much higher once he clicked this plus icon here to add a new post,
maybe this enhances our chance, so maybe we want to show the banner at this point of time.
Now we can only show it if these criteria here are met but we can prevent Chrome from showing it after
this criteria here and show it at a later point of time,
for example if the user visited the second time after five minutes and after he clicked this button.
So let's implement the code we need for that.
So I'll switch back to my code and we implement that code in the app.js file. In there,
I want to save this install banner to show it at a later point of time,
I can react to the event that Chrome wants to show it with an event listener which I register on the
window object,
so on my browser window. There, the event I want to listen to is the beforeinstallprompt event,
make sure to not mistype it,
this is fired or triggered by Chrome right before it's about to show that installed banner.
So in the function here, we get an event which basically this install banner event
and here we can for example prevent the default.
So this basically means
now Chrome won't show the banner.
I will also log something in the console before we do so,
I will say beforeinstallprompt fired, like that,
then we also prevent the showing of this and now I want to show it at a later point of time.
Now for that, I'll store it in a variable,
I'll create a new variable at the top here which I'll name
deferredPrompt
and I will store the event in this variable, so deferredPrompt is equal to the event, then I'll return false
to not do anything upon this event.
Now we wanted to do something once the user click the plus icon, which is the case here in the feed.js
file, there
we have this share image button event listener. The share image button simply is the button here, this button
which is this plus at the bottom right corner.
So there we call open create post modal, this function here,
so it's in this function that we could show this prompt if we wanted to.
Now to do so, I will first have to check if we already did have a chance to show it because we can't
show it on our own,
we need to have Chrome at least try to do so.
Here I'll check if deferredPrompt is set,
so if this is null or undefined, this will not execute. Inside this code which is only executed if the
deferredPrompt is somehow set,
I can now call deferredPrompt, prompt, the prompt method which will now show this banner.
Again this is only possible since Chrome already tried to do so earlier.
Then as a next step, we can see what the user picked by adding deferredPrompt user choice then,
so user choice is a promise and here we'll execute a function which will give us the choice
result.
So this function is executed once the user made a choice and choice result basically gives us information
about which choice that was.
Now with that, I can first of all console log the choice result outcome which is basically a string describing
the choice of the user
and of course I can check for it,
I can check if the choice result outcome is equal to dismissed,
which is the case if the user clicked the x, the close button,
in this case I can say user cancelled installation. Of course that's a pity
and we actually can't show the prompt again because we only have one chance
but we did our best, user can still add it through the menu of course with add to home screen and this is,
well
what we have to go with but of course, we can also have the success case here where we can then console
log user added to home screen. This of course is the case we're looking for. Now
in any case what I'll do at the end is I'll set deferredPrompt equal to null
because we used it, we can't use it again
so we had our chance,
this is the code we want to execute. With that, I'll save this and we can now test this and see if we can
actually control the way the prompt is shown as we hope to do.
For that, I'll go back in my remote developer tools and there first of all, I need to do something,
I need to clean the site data by clicking the i, site settings and then clear and reset because Chrome
of course still has saved that I did dismiss this banner.
Now I can revisit the page and I should be able to click add to home screen again
and you do see, beforeinstallprompt was fired, actually was fired twice because up on the reloading,
Chrome already tried to show me this prompt.
Now watch what happens if I click the plus, you see here I get this banner
and if I do click add here, we see accepted was the choice,
user added to homescreen is the log we print.
So this is now working,
now we can control how does this shown, how the prompt is shown, when it is shown and we can try to show
it at the best possible moment.
So here, we already take advantage of having a service worker because now at least we can show this prompt
and we'll soon add much more logic with service workers.
It's great that we already can prompt the user to add this to his home screen though because that is
where we want to get to with our application.